=head1 NAME 

README.format.arff.pod

=head1 SYNPOSIS

This file briefly describes the ARFF format used by the WEKA datamining 
package.

=head1 THE .arff FORMAT


The .arff format is required by the WEKA data mining package to perform 
supervised learning. An example of the .arff format when running mm2arff.pl 
on the above .mm format example with the cui option (mm2arff.pl --cui ex.arff 
ex.mm) is as follows:

@RELATION art

@ATTRIBUTE Name NUMERIC

@ATTRIBUTE Magazine NUMERIC

@ATTRIBUTE Top NUMERIC

@ATTRIBUTE Collectors NUMERIC

@ATTRIBUTE Sense {art}

@DATA

1,1,1,1,art


The @RELATION tag indicates the attribute of the data set. In this case 
we are trying to identify the sense of the word art.

The @ATTRIBUTE <cui> NUMERIC indicates that there is an attribute 
which in this case is a specific cui and it takes a NUMERIC value. In 
our case 1 or 0 depending on if that cui exists in the same context 
as the target word. You can have multiple attributes. The attributes 
in the arff file are determined by the user defined options for this 
program.

The @ATTRIBUTE Sense tag is always there. This indicates the possible 
senses for all the instances in the data set. Since we were looking 
at only one instance, we have only one possible sense ("art"). Normally 
there would be multiple senses, like {art,art_gallery}. The senses 
are delimited by a comma.

The @DATA indicates that all the instances with their corresponding 
features and sense are below.

So "1,1,1,1,art" indicates for this instance the cui's "Name", "Magazine", 
"Top", and "Collectors" all exist surrounding the target word and the 
sense of this instance is "art".

For more information about this format see the WEKA documentation at:

http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka/

=head1 AUTHOR

Bridget McInnes, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2007-2008,

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth.
 tpederse at umn.edu

 Bridget McInnes, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities
 bthomson at cs.umn.edu

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to

 The Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
 Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.

=cut
