=head1 Name

README.Testing.pod

=head1 Purpose

The purpose of Testing directory is to provide test scripts to test the 
correct functionality of the programs provided with this distribution. The 
test scripts can be run to make sure that package is installed properly and 
all required system paths are set. This also helps us to test backward 
compatibility of programs when programs are upgraded. 

=head1 Organization 

Testing Dir contains various sub directories, each of which tests individual 
program of this package. 

Each subdirectory has various .sh test files written in Cshell script. 
All tests that test behavior of a program under normal conditions can be run
using a script normal-op.sh(found in each sub-dir). 

All test scripts in all the program directories can be run with a single 
command testall.sh. 

If everything is fine, you will see 

STATUS : OK 
messages for each of these tests.

If the package is not installed rightly or paths not set, 
Tests will show

STATUS : ERROR 
message.

=head1 Version information

The key files for the various were created using the following version 
information:
  
  UMLS version 2010AA

  UMLS-Interface version 0.91

  MetaMap version 2010

If you are not using these version, we can not gaurantee all of the 
tests will pass due to changes from version to version. 

=head1 Copying

This suite of programs is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple
Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.

Note: The text of the GNU General Public License is provided in the file
GPL.txt that you should have received with this distribution.

=head1 Acknowledgment

This work has been partially supported by a National Science Foundation
Faculty Early CAREER Development award (#0092784).

=cut
