##################################################################
#
#    CHANGES for the word2vec-interface Package
#    $Id: CHANGELOG.pod,v 0.02 2017/01/05 14:03:05 cuffyca Exp $ 
#################################################################

=head1 NAME

word2vec CHANGES

=head2 version 0.02

(01/05/2017)

 - Clean.t - Implemented to clean up word2vec directory files after testing.
 - interface.pm - WSDParseList() - Updated to check for existing vector data in memory.
                                  This update will now overwrite existing data if new vector
                                  file path is specified or use existing data if vector file path
                                  is not specified.
 - inteface.t - Added more tests.
 - Makefile.PL - Changed required Encoding version from 2.87 to 2.86.

(01/04/2017)

 - BuildExecutables.t - Implemented this test file to build executable files prior to running other tests.
 - README.pod - Updated to reflect renamed modules and scripts.
 - interace.pm - Added missing function: W2VClearWordVectorBST()
 - interface.t - More advanced function testing.

(01/03/2017)

 - interface.pm - CLAddTwoWordVectors() - Bug Fix: Return undef when one or more words not found.
                - CLSubtractTwoWordVectors() - Bug Fix: Return undef when one or more words not found.
                - CLConvertWord2VecBinaryToText() - Renamed to CLConvertWord2VecVectorFileToText()
                - CLConvertWord2VecTextToBinary() - Renamed to CLConvertWord2VecVectorFileToBinary()
                - CLConvertWord2VecTextToSparse() - Renamed to CLConvertWord2VecVectorFileToSparse()
                - CLConvertWord2VecVectorFileToText()- Bug Fix: Resolved condition where this function permanently
                                                                  sets sparsevectormode variable to true. Subsequent
                                                                  reading of a dense or binary formatted vector data
                                                                  will result in reading errors.
                - CLConvertWord2VecVectorFileToBinary()- Bug Fix: Resolved condition where this function permanently
                                                                  sets sparsevectormode variable to true. Subsequent
                                                                  reading of a dense or binary formatted vector data
                                                                  will result in reading errors.
                - CLConvertWord2VecVectorFileToSparse()- Bug Fix: Resolved condition where this function permanently
                                                                  sets sparsevectormode variable to true. Subsequent
                                                                  reading of a dense or binary formatted vector data
                                                                  will result in reading errors.
                - CLSimilarityAvg() - Bug Fix: Check to see if vector data is in memory before continuing.
                                    - Log typo
                - CLSimilarityComp() - Bug Fix: Check to see if vector data is in memory before continuing.
                                     - Log typo
                - CLSimilartiySum() - Bug Fix: Check to see if vector data is in memory before continuing.
                                    - Log typo
 - Updated Interface.t, interface.pod & word2vec-interface.pl to support the above changes.
 - bst.pm - BSTContainsSearch() - Bug Fix: Check to see if $node->data is defined before using contents.
          - BSTExactSearch() - Bug Fix: Check to see if $node->data is defiend before using contents.
 - w2vbst.pm - BSTExactSearch() - Bug Fix: Check to see if $node->word is defined before using contents.
 - word2vec.pm - GetWordVector() - Bug Fix: Check to see if vector data is in memory before continuing.
 - interface.t - More advanced function testing.

(01/02/2017)

 - word2vec.pm - GetWordVectorBST() - Bug Fix: w2vbst->new() to Word2vec::W2vbst->new()
               - RemoveWordFromWordVectorString() - Use "shift" versus old method. Achieves the same results but much easier to interpret.
 - word2vec.t - Added more sparse vector data format testing routines.
 - interface.t - Started basic interface testing routines.
 - interface.pm - new() - Fixed checking for current working directory and print statement.

(01/01/2017)

 - word2vec.pm - Incorporated ComputeAvgOfWordsCosineSimilarity() to include calculating averages of words. Now arguments require words to compute, not word vector averages.
               - ComputeAvgOfWordsCosineSimilarity() - Returns undef when ComputeAverageOfWords() function returns undef.
               - Added AverageOfTwoWordVectors() function.
               - Added ComputeCosineSimilarityOfWordVectors() function.
               - Updated WSDCalculateCosineAvgSimilarity() to use the new ComputeCosineSimilarityOfWordVectors() function as the old function is no longer compatible.
               - new() - Enabled minimize memory usage setting by default.
               - GetMinimizeMemoryUsage() - Set to enable if not defined.
               - ComputeAverageOfWords() - Correction in printed logs / Log Update
               - GetWordVector() - Updated printed log text.
               - Added RemoveWordFromWordVectorString() function.
 - interface.pm - CLSimilarityAvg() - Updated to support the above change.
                                    - Included print statements when debuglog option is disabled.
                - CLComputeCosineSimilarity() - Updated to clear bst in memory.
                - CLComputeMultiWordCosineSimilarity() - Updated to clear bst in memory.
                - CLComputeAvgOfWordsCosineSimilarity() - Updated to clear bst in memory.
                - CLMultiWordCosSimWithUserInput() - Updated to clear bst in memory.
                - Added W2VAverageOfTwoWordVectors() function to support the above change.
                - Added W2VComputeCosineSimilarityOfWordVectors() function to support the above change.
 - word2vec-interface.pl - WSD() - Enabled low memory usage by default.
 - word2vec.t - Finished majority of testing cases for dense/binary arrays.
 - Updated POD documentation to support the above changes.
 - Updated depreciated scripts to support the above changes.

(12/31/2016)

 - xmltow2v.pm - GetCompoundWordBST() - Bug Fix: bst->new() to Word2vec::bst->new();
 - xmltow2v.t - Finished testing cases.
 - word2phrase.pm - ExecuteStringTraining() - Bug Fix: Not training on temp file, now fixed.
 - word2vec.pm - GetBinaryOutput() - Set to return 1 by word2vec package default standards.
               - SaveTrainedVectorDataToFile() - Bug Fix: Missing file handle close statements.
                                               - Updated to support conversion from sparse vector formatted data.
                                               (Conversion would fail if original format was binary converting to sparse or sparse to sparse)
 - word2phrase.t - Finished testing cases.
 - word2vec.t - Basic testing done. Advanced testing needs to be completed.

(12/28/2016)

 - xmltow2v.t - More testing cases.

(12/27/2016)

 - Updated POD documentation with latest added functions.

(12/23/2016)

 - word2vec.pm - Reverted change from storing vocabulary as hash back to binary search tree.
                 (After testing, I found the BST to be much faster than using a Hash vocabulary)

(12/22/2016)

 - word2vec-interface.pl - PrintElapsedTime() - Bug Fix: Incorrect day calculation
                                              - Updates
 - word2vec.pm - W2vbst.pm - Depreciated, Now storing vocabulary data as hash. Functions affected below:
                 ComputeAverageOfWords(), GetWordVector(),
                 ClearVocabularyArray() -> ClearVocabularyHash()
                 SetVocabularyArray()   -> SetVocabularyHash()
                 GetVocabularyArray()   -> GetVocabularyHash()
               - Removed all W2vbst.pm functions: SetWordVectorBST(), ClearWordVectorBST()
 - word2vec.pod - Updated to support the above changes.
 - interface.pm - Updated to support the above changes.
 - interface.pod - Updated to support the above changes.
 - Added undocumented functions to POD files.

(12/18/2016)

 - word2vec-interface.pl - Similarity() - Added return statement status checking.
 - word2vec.pm - ComputeAverageOfWords() - Updated commenting
               - CLSimilarityAvg(), CLSimilarityComp() & CLSimilaritySum() - Added file checking and return statements.

(12/18/2016)

 - interface.pm - WSDGenerateAccuracyReport() - Bug Fix: Reporting no results files found despite finding files and reporting parsing/saving files when none found.
                - WSDParseList() - Bug Fix: Now checks for zero-byte files prior to trying to load them in memory.

(12/17/2016)

 - word2vec-interface.pl - Changed some command names to more sensible names.
                         - Added similarity option and related methods.
                         - Added Similarity() method.
 - interface.pm - Added CLSimilarityAvg(), CLSimilarityComp() & CLSimilaritySum() methods.
 - word2vec.pm - Updated clear vocabulary and bst methods to set number of words and vector length variables to zero.
               - ReadTrainedVectorDataFromFile - Bug Fix: Updated to check number of words in memory versus vocabulary array before loading trained vector data.
               - ReadTrainedVectorDataFromFile - Updated to set NumberOfWords & VectorLength when reading text vector formatted file.
 - Package update: Added functionality for the ease of computing similarity measures based on changes above.

(12/15/2016)

 - word2vec.pm - ComputeCosineSimilarity() / ComputeMultiWordCosineSimilarity() - Updated to support GetWordVector() function and its new algorithms.
                                                                                  Both functions are not compatible with sparse vectors as well as dense vectors.
               - ComputeMultiWordCosineSimilarity() - Bug Fixes / Performance updates.
               - ComputeAverageOfWords() - Bug Fix: Setting results array to empty if computational average divisor < 1.
               - ReadTrainedVectorDataFromFile() - Bug Fix: Attempting to parse uninitialized variable : $buffer.

(12/13/2016)

 - interface.pm - Re-added: WSDAnalyzeSenseFiles() with better detection of instance/sense id mis-match.

(12/10/2016)

 - word2vec.pm - Added _minimizeMemoryUsage variable, GetMinimizeMemoryUsage() and SetMinimizeMemoryUsage() methods.
 - word2vec-interface.pl - Added provisions for setting (-lowmemusage) WSD option. Default is off.
                         - Bug Fix: -lowmemusage option set to 0 regardless if user desired to set to 1.
                         - Bug Fix: Checking "n" with '!=' equality operator versus 'ne' operator.
 - word2vec::ComputeAverageOfWords() - Added a low memory usage algorithm set-able be the above changes.
                                     - Bug Fix: Attempting to convert undefined variable to hash. Conversion method throwing error.
 - interface.pm - Added W2VConvertRawSparseTextToVectorDataAry(), W2VConvertRawSparseTextToVectorDataHash(),
                  W2VGetSparseVectorMode(), W2VGetVectorLength(), W2VGetNumberOfWords(), W2VGetMinimizeMemoryUsage(),
                  W2VSetSparseVectorMode(), W2VSetVectorLength(), W2VSetNumberOfWords(), W2VSetMinimizeMemoryUsage() methods.

(12/09/2016)

 - interface.pm - WSDAnalyzeSenseFiles() - Removed as it is no longer necessary.
 - word2vec.pm - ComputeAverageOfWords() - Hash to Array : Off by one issue resulting in memory leaks.
                                           Note: My sparse vector format specification consisted of 0 being the first index in the sparse vector.
                                                 Dr McInnes' sparse vector format specification consisted of 1 being the first index in the sparse vector.
                                                 This resulted in the last index being off by one / memory leak.

(12/08/2016)

 - word2vec.pm - ComputeAverageOfWords() - Re-wrote algorithm to be more memory efficient at the cost of speed.
               - ComputeAverageOfWords() - Another re-write using hashes (Speed + Memory Efficiency)
               - Added ConvertRawSparseTextToVectorDataAry() & ConvertRawSparseTextToVectorDataHash()
 - interface.pm - WSDCalculateCosineAvgSimilarity() - Bug Fix: Check $cosSimValue is defined prior to utilizing.
                - WSDCalculateCosineAvgSimilarity() - Bug Fix: Checking to see if result after calling ComputeAverageOfWords() is defined.
                - CLComputeAvgOfWordsCosineSimilarity() - Bug Fix: Checking to see if result after calling ComputeAverageOfWords() is defined.
                                                        - Bug Fix: Checking $avgAVtrSize and $avgBVtrSize for undefined variables.
                - ComputeCosineSimilarity() - Bug Fix: Checking $wordAVtrSize and $wordBVtrSize for undefined variables.

(12/07/2016)

 - interface.pm - Commenting updates/fixes
                - Added W2VAddTwoWords() / W2VSubtractTwoWords() Methods to support previous Word2vec::Word2vec module updates.
 - word2vec.pm - Efficiency/Speed fix - De-refencing array reference and assigning to array variable versus accessing through
                                        array reference. Line: 775
               - ComputeAverageOfWords() - Bug Fix: Divide by zero (even-though this should never happen, it is just a pre-caution )
               - ComputeAverageOfWords() - Bug Fix: Fixed memory leak!!!!!
               - GetWordVector() - Included argument to retrieve raw sparse text during "Sparse Vector Format Mode"

(12/06/2016)

 - Due to memory constraint issues with large sparse vector formatted data, data is now stored as a sparse vector and converted on-the-fly.
 - word2vec::ReadTrainedVectorDataFromFile() - Updated to store sparse vector data as sparse vector data string.
 - word2vec::SaveTrainedvectorDataToFile() - Updated to support new "storing sparse formatted vector" data in memory and conversions between formats.
 - word2vec::GetWordVector() - Missing return statement
                             - Updated to convert sparse vector data format to regular vector data format on-the-fly.
 - interface::WSDParseList() - Debug log statement fixes and updates
 - Warning: Using large sparse vectors come at an expense of speed. Sparse vectors are converted to standard vectors on-the-fly.
 - Renamed all associated files to include capitalization of the first letter of each file name.
 - Updated Makefile.PL, MANIFEST & MANIFEST-org files to support the above naming convention change.

(12/4/2016)

 - interface::CLCompileTextCorpus() - Bug Fix: Setting overwriteExistingFile if numOfThreads not defined. Corrected to check
                                               against correct variable.
                                    - Updated to support checking current CPU for number of cores. This is utilized to set
                                      numOfThreads variable when not defined.

(12/3/2016)

 - word2vec-interface - Removed External in main directory
 - MANIFEST - Removed "ignore.txt" entry
 - MAKEFILE - Changed "Class::Struct" to 0.64
 - README - Updated "authors & copyright" to include Dr. McInnes
 - INSTALL - Updated "contact list" to include Dr. McInnes
 - word2vec-interface.pl - Updated help sub-routine. Typos.
                         - Updated script to ignore compiler warnings when user runs "--test" command.
                         - ShowVersion() - Typo and added Dr. McInnes to copyright.
                         - ShowHelp() - Updated formatting to display correctly on smaller windows.

=head2 version 0.01

1. Initial package release

