##################################################################
#
#    INSTALLATION Instructions for the word2vec-interface Package
#    $Id: INSTALL.pod,v 0.02 2017/01/05 14:03:46 cuffyca Exp $ 
##################################################################

=head1 word2vec

word2vec-interface is a wrapper package built around word2vec, including many useful utilities such as word vector manipulation.

=head1 TESTING PLATFORMS

Word2vec-interface package has been developed and tested on Windows and Linux 
primarily using Perl and the Cmd/Bash shell. 

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

Word2vec-interface REQUIRES that the following software be installed. 
More details on how to obtain and install appear below.

--Programming Languages
Perl (version 5.24.0 or better)

--CPAN modules
 <Encode>
 <XML::Twig>
 <File::Type>
 <Class::Struct>
 <Text::Unidecode>
 <Sys::CpuAffinity>
 <IO::Uncompress::Gunzip>

=head1 PROGGRAMMING LANGUAGES

=head2 Perl (version 5.24.0 or better)

Perl is freely available at:

L<http://www.perl.org>

It is very likely that you will already have Perl installed 
if you are using a Unix/Linux based system.

If you are using a windows environment, it is recommended that
you use Strawberry Perl v5.24 or greater. This is the Perl software suite used 
to develop this package under windows.

=head1 CPAN MODULES

=head2 I<Encode>

Please see the L<http://perldoc.perl.org/Encode.html> documentation.

=head2 I<XML::Twig>

Please see the L<http://search.cpan.org/~mirod/XML-Twig-3.49/> or L<http://www.xmltwig.org/xmltwig/> documentation.

=head2 I<File::Type>

Please see the L<http://search.cpan.org/~pmison/File-Type-0.22/> documentation.

=head2 I<Class::Struct>

Please see the L<http://search.cpan.org/~rjbs/perl-5.24.0/lib/Class/Struct.pm> documentation.

=head2 I<Text::Unidecode>

Please see the L<http://search.cpan.org/~sburke/Text-Unidecode-1.27/> documentation.

=head2 I<Sys::CpuAffinity>

Please see the L<http://search.cpan.org/~mob/Sys-CpuAffinity-1.10/> documentation.

=head2 I<IO::Uncompress::Gunzip>

Please see the L<http://search.cpan.org/~pmqs/IO-Compress-2.069/lib/IO/Uncompress/Gunzip.pm> documentation.

=head1 INSTALLATION 

If you have supervisor access, or have configured MCPAN for local 
install, you can install via: 

 perl -MCPAN -e shell
 > install word2vec-interface 


If not, you can, "manually" install by downloading the *.tar.gz file,  
unpacking, and executing the following commands. 

                perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=/home/programs LIB=/home/lib
                make
                make test
                make install

Note that the PREFIX and LIB settings are just examples to help you create 
a local install, if you do not have supervisor (su) access. 

You must include /home/lib in your PERL5LIB environment 
variable to access this module when running.

If you have the super-user access, then you can install word2vec 
into system directories via :
		perl Makefile.PL
		make
		make install
	 	make clean

The exact location of where word2vec-interface will be installed 
depends on your system configuration. A message will be printed 
out after 'make install' telling your exactly where it was installed. 

=head1 CONTACT US

You may contact me directly if you prefer :

 Bridgett McInnes: btmcinnes at vcu.edu
 Clint Cuffy: cuffyca at vcu.edu

