#!/usr/local/bin/perl

=head1 Name

README.Demos.pod

=head1 Description 

The Demos directory allows a user to run various sample experiments with 
the CuiTools system. 

In order to run the demos the following environment variables must 
be set.

 1. CUITOOLSHOME
 1. WEKAHOME
 2. NLMWSDHOME
 3. METMAP_PATH

Note: The NLMWSDHOME variable does not need to be set in order to use 
CuiTools because the location of the Reviewed_Results directory 
from the NLM-WSD data set is read in on the command line. For 
the Demo's to run easily though, we do require it.

CuiTools provides a wrapper program called disambiguate.pl that can 
be used to run many different experiments. This wrapper calls many of the 
other programs found in the package and integrates their functionality for 
you. We show how disambiguate.pl can be used to carry out target word 
disambiguation.

CuiTools also allows a user to customize the sequence of operations 
carried out in their experiments, and examples of that are shown in 
scripts McInnesPPC07.sh and JoshiPM05.sh.

=head1 converter-demos

These scripts explain how to convert the National Library of Medicine's 
Word Sense Disambiguation (NLM-WSD) dataset \cite{WeeberMA01} into the 
.mm format. 

=head2 make-originalNLM-data.sh 

make-originalNLM-data.sh creates a fresh copy of the NLM-WSD data set 
converted into the CuiTools xml-like .mm format using the MetaMap 
information that exists in the data set. This data can be used by the 
diambiguate.pl program.

Note: Before running any demo, make sure to remove the 
make-originalNLM-data.mm directory if one already exists.

=head2 make-MetaMapNLM-data.sh 

make-MetaMapNLM-data.sh creates a fresh copy of the NLM-WSD data set 
converted into the CuiTools xml-like .mm format using newly 
acquired MetaMap information from the current version of MetaMap.
This data can be used by the diambiguate.pl program.

Note: Before running any demo, make sure to remove the 
make-MetaMapNLM-data.mm directory if one already exists.

=head1 publication-demos

These scripts run simulation of experiments conducted by ourselves and 
re-implementation of others

=head2 LeroyR04.sh

This script runs a simulation of the experiments conducted by Leroy and 
Rindflesch, 2004.

@article{LeroyR05,
  title={Effects of information and machine learning algorithms on word sense disambiguation with small datasets},
  author={Leroy, G. and Rindflesch, T.C.},
  journal={International Journal of Medical Informatics},
  year={2005}, 
  volume={74},
  number={7-8},
  pages={573-585}}

=head2 JoshiPM05.sh

This script runs a simulation of the experiments conducted by Joshi, Pedersen 
and Maclin, 2005.

@inproceedings{JoshiPM05,
 author={Joshi, M. and Pedersen, T. and Maclin, R.},
 title={A Comparative Study of Support Vectors Machines Applied to the Supervised Word Sense Disambiguation Problem in the Medical Domain},
 booktitle={Second Indian International Conference on Artificial Intelligence},
 year={2005}}

=head2 McInnesPC07.sh

This script runs a simulations of the experiments conducted by McInnes, 
Pedersen and Carlis, 2007.

@article{McInnesPC07,
 title={Using UMLS Concept Unique Identifiers (CUIs) for Word Sense Disambiguation in the Biomedical Domain},
 author={McInnes, B.T. and Pedersen, T. and Carlis, J.},
 journal={In review},
 year={2007}}

=head1 supervised-demos

=head2 10-fold-demo.sh

This script runs 10-fold cross validation experiments on the NLM-WSD data 
set. This script is only here to demonstrate how to do this with CuiTools. 
This script uses the NLM-WSD data set as its data source. This is done 
only because other Demo's in this package also use that source.


=head2 KCUI-MMI.sh and KCUI-Windowing.sh

This script runs my KCUI dissertation experiments using the MMI CUIs 
as features and the Windowing features. This script uses the NLM-WSD 
data set as its data source.

@phdthesis{McInnes:PhD,
 author = {McInnes, B.T.},
 title = {Supervised and Knowledge-based Methods for Disambiguating Terms in Biomedical Text using the UMLS and MetaMap},
 school = {University of Minnesota},
 year = {2009}}

=head1 unsupervised-demos

I don't have any of these yet but I will add some in the near future.
