=head1 NAME

FAQs.CT.pod

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Listing the frequently asked questions about the CuiTools package.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Functionality related questions :

=head3 What applications can CuiTools be used for?

CuiTools can be applied to any word sense disambiguation problem.

=head2 Package related questions :

=head3 Can I use CuiTools without installing NSP and WEKA?

No, you will always need NSP and WEKA.

=head3 Can I use CuiTools without MetaMap?

Yes. You only need MetaMap if you would like to run the 
plain2mm.pl program that converts plain text  to mm format.

=head3 Will CuiTools only run using the NLM-WSD data set

No, CuiTools will run on any data set that is either in 
the machine prolog output (similar to the NLM-WSD data set) 
or plain text format.

In plain format each line of the text files contains a single context. 
where the ambiguous word is identified by <head instance="instance" 
sense="sense">word</head>.

For example: 

Paul was named <head instance="art.30002" sense="art">Art</head> magazine's top collector.

=head2 Questions on data formatting :

=head3 What is plain text formating

In plain format each line of the text files contains a single context. 
where the ambiguous word is identified by <head instance="instance" 
sense="sense">word</head>.

For example: 

Paul was named <head instance="art.30002" sense="art">Art</head> magazine's top collector.

=head3 Why do is the PMID version of the NLM-WSD data set required?

The PMID version is required by the nlm2sval2 package which subsequently 
means that it is required by the nlm2mm program. If you are not going to 
use the nlm2mm program then it shouldn't matter which version of the 
dataset you use.

=head2 Questions on Features :

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

Bridget T. McInnes, University of Minnesota
bthomson at cs.umn.edu

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2007,

Bridget T. McInnes, University of Minnesota
bthomson at cs.umn.edu

Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth.
tpederse at umn.edu

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to

The Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.

=cut
