=head1 CuiTools

CuiTools

=head1 SYNOPSIS

CuiTools (Coo-e Tools) is a package of Perl programs that can used 
to carry out supervised, unsupervised and semi-supervised word sense 
disambiguation experiments. The name CuiTools comes from the Concept 
Unique Identifiers (Cuis) found in the Unified Medical Language System 
(UMLS). This package was originally created in order to assign Cuis from 
the UMLS to ambiguous words in biomedical text. This has been extended 
now to accommodate test sets in the general English domain such has 
Senseval-2. This package allows users to extract features from the UMLS 
for any given data set and experiment with the machine learning algorithms 
in the WEKA data-mining package.

CuiTools uses specialized tools such as the Ngram Statistics Package 
(NSP), the WEKA data mining package, and MetaMap.

=head1 OVERVIEW

CuiTools supervised and semi-supervised disambiguation supports a variety 
of features that can be extracted from the Unified Medical Language System 
(UMLS), such as semantic types UMLS concept unique identifiers (CUIs), and 
all the learning algorithms available from the WEKA data mining package 
including Naive Bayes, Decision Trees and SVM. 

CuiTools unsupervised disambiguation

=head1 DOCUMENTATION

CuiTools' documentation is available ONLINE at :
L<http://cuitools.sourceforge.net/CuiTools-Code-README.html>

For OFFLINE browsing, directory Docs/HTML is provided in CuiTools'
main package directory and the CuiTools-Code-README.html file can
be found here and locally browsed.

All programs have inline source code documentation written in pod style
and this can be browsed from command line as a man page or using the
'perldoc' command. For example, 'man disambiguate.pl' or 'perldoc
disambiguate.pl' will displayed the documentation for the disambiguuate.pl 
program. Each program also has a --help option to provide information
about program options.

=head1 GETTING STARTED

You might first like to run the Demo scripts in Demos/ directory to get
an idea of CuiTools' usage and functionality.

Demos/ contains scripts that utilize the wrapper program disambiguate.pl
that calls various other programs from the package to run a complete
experiment. It also contains examples where specialized experiments are
constructed directly from the programs provided in the package. 

=head1 PACKAGE ORGANIZATION

After downloading and unpacking CuiTools, you should find following 
files/directories within the CuiTools' directory.

=over 4

=item * README

This file.

=item * INSTALL

The installation guide, which lists all package dependencies.


=item * supervised-disambiguate.pl

A wrapper program that acts as a driver to perform supervised 
word sense disambiguation using other programs in this package. 
It disambiguate the given target word instances based on specified 
contextual information. 

=item * unsupervised-disambiguate.html

A wrapper program that acts as a driver to perform unsupervised 
word sense disambiguation using other programs in this package. 
It disambiguate the given target word instances based on specified 
contextual information.

=item * Demos/

A directory of scripts that demonstrates CuiTools' usage and 
functionality. 

=item * src/

A directory of Perl programs implemented and used by CuiTools. 

=item * lib/

A directory of Perl modules used by the Perl programs in the 
bin directory

=item * datafiles/

A directory of data files used by the programs in the bin/ directory 
and disambiguate.pl

=item * Docs/

A directory of CuiTools' documentation in html format. 

=item * Testing/ 

A directory of test cases written as C-shell scripts that will test if the 
package is installed properly or not. 

=item * Changes/

A directory of changelogs that document the changes and improvements done 
during each version.

=item * Makefile.PL 

Generates a Makefile on running 'perl Makefile.PL'.

=item * GPL.txt

A copy of the GNU General Public License, the terms under which CuiTools
is distributed.

=item * FDL.txt

A copy of the GNU Free Documentation License, the terms under which the
documentation of CuiTools is distributed.

=back

=head1 CONTACT US

Please join our mailing lists to participate in the package related 
discussions, to post your questions or bugs and also to suggest 
enhancements to the package functionality.

To subscribe to the user's mailing list, visit : 
http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/cuitools-users

To subscribe to a low volume news mailing list, visit : 
http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/cuitools-news

Recent version of CuiTools can be downloaded from :
http://cuitools.sourceforge.net/

=head1 SEE ALSO

CuiTools' ONLINE Documentation at 
http://cuitools.sourceforge.net/CuiTools-Code-README.html

=head1 AUTHORS

 Bridget T. McInnes
 University of Minnesota
 bthomson at cs.umn.edu
 http://www.cs.umn.edu/~bthomson 

 Ted Pedersen
 University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu
 http://www.d.umn.edu/~tpederse/

=head1 COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2007-2011,  Bridget T. McInnes and Ted Pedersen

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to

The Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.

=cut
