=head1 NAME 

README.format.mm.pod

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This file briefly describes the .mm format used by the CuiTools package.

=head1 THE .mm FORMAT

The .mm format is the xml-like format that is used by the CuiTools package.

The complete context is displayed in the <context line="<context>"/> tags. 

The sentences in the context are broken up and displayed in the <sentence 
tw="<target word, if exists in the sentence>" instance="<id>" line="<sentence>" 
tags. There may be more than one sentence per context and the sentence id may 
or may not be available.

The sentences are broken up and displayed in the <phrase tw="<target word, 
if exists in the phrase>" hw="<head word of the phrase>" line="<phrase>"/> 
tags. There is more than one phrase associated with a single sentence. 
The "tw" contain the target word if it exists in the phrase.

The phrases are then broken up into their individual words using the 
<token word="<word>" pos="<part of speech>" tags. If the word is the 
target word then instead of "token" the tag will display "target". 
Inside the token tags there may exist a mapping tag which contain 
information from the National Library of Medicine's MetaMap Transfer 
(MMTx) program. This information includes the concept unique identifiers 
(CUIs) associated with that token. A mapping tag would look as such: 

<mapping rank="<rank>" score="<score>" umls_cui="<the UMLS concept unique identifier>" umls_concept="<UMLS concept>" semantic_types="<semantic types>"/>

The CUIs associated with a token are assigned a score and are ranked based 
on this score by MMTx. The mapping tag includes the rank and the score 
information. The UMLS concept unique identifier is an ID, such as "C0003826", 
indicating the the UMLS concept.  The UMLS concept is the written form of the 
CUIs. The UMLS concept for cui "C0003826" is "Art". The semantic types are 
the types that are associated with that cui such as "ocdi". There may exist 
more than one semantic types, in which case they are comma separated. A complete 
listing of semantic types can be found:
	http://mmtx.nlm.nih.gov/semanticTypes.shtml.

There may or may  not exist a mapping tag for each token/target tag.

Example of .mm format for the context line: "Paul was name Art magazine's 
top collector".

 <corpus lang='en'>
   <lexelt item="art" senses="art">
    <instance id="art.30002" alias="art">
      <answer instance="art.30002" senseid="art"/>
      <context line="Paul was name Art magazine's top collector"/>
        <sentence tw="art" id="art.30002" line="Paul was name Art magazine's top collector">
          <phrase tw="" head="" line="Paul">
            <token word="paul" pos="noun">
            </token>
          </phrase>
          <phrase tw="" head="" line="was">
            <token word="was" pos="aux">
            </token>
          </phrase>
          <phrase tw="" head="name" line="name">
            <token word="name" pos="verb">
              <mapping rank="1" score="1000" umls_cui="C0027365" umls_concept="Name" semantic_types="idcn,inpr"/>
              <mapping rank="2" score="966" umls_cui="C0233735" umls_concept="Naming" semantic_types="menp"/>
            </token>
          </phrase>
          <phrase tw="art" head="magazine" line="Art magazine">
            <target word="art" pos="noun">
              <mapping rank="1" score="694" umls_cui="C0003826" umls_concept="Arts" semantic_types="ocdi"/>
              <mapping rank="2" score="694" umls_cui="C0220786" umls_concept="Products of the Arts" semantic_types="mnob"/>
              <mapping rank="3" score="694" umls_cui="C1140123" umls_concept="WHO Adverse Reaction Terminology" semantic_types="inpr"/>
            </target>
            <token word="magazine" pos="noun">
              <mapping rank="1,2,3" score="861" umls_cui="C0162443" umls_concept="Magazines" semantic_types="inpr,mnob"/>
            </token>
          </phrase>
          <phrase tw="" head="" line="''s">
            <token word=" s" pos="aux">
            </token>
          </phrase>
          <phrase tw="" head="collector" line="top collector">
            <token word="top" pos="noun">
              <mapping rank="1" score="694" umls_cui="C1552827" umls_concept="Table Cell Vertical Align - top" semantic_types="spco"/>
              <mapping rank="2" score="694" umls_cui="C0000811" umls_concept="Termination of pregnancy" semantic_types="topp"/>
              <mapping rank="3" score="661" umls_cui="C0076833" umls_concept="container tops" semantic_types="medd"/>
            </token>
            <token word="collector" pos="noun">
              <mapping rank="1,2,3" score="827" umls_cui="C0180011" umls_concept="Collectors" semantic_types="medd"/>
            </token>
          </phrase>
        </sentence>
    </instance>
  </lexelt>
</corpus>

=head1 AUTHOR

Bridget McInnes, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2007-2008,

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth.
 tpederse at umn.edu

 Bridget McInnes, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities
 bthomson at cs.umn.edu

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to

 The Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
 Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.

=cut 



