=head1 NAME 

README.src.pod

=head1 Synopsis

This file briefly describes the functionality of all the programs in 
the src directory of CuiTools

=head1 CuiTools Programs 

=head2 supervised 

=head3 internal

=head4 mm2arff.pl

Converts the CuiTools xml-like .mm formatted text into arff formatted 
data used by the WEKA data mining package.

More information about the arff format can be found in the file 
README.format.arff.pod

More information about the .mm format can be found in the file
README.format.mm.pod

=head4 x-fold.pl

This program sets up the files for X-fold cross validation.

=head4 split.pl

This program randomly splits a file in mm format into a single 
training and test file. 

=head2 unsupervised

=head3 external

=head4 nsp2regex.pl (SenseCluster v0.95 program used without modifications)

Takes n-word sequences and represents them as regular 
expressions. These can then be used to identify lexical 
features in a given data, and convert a lexical element 
files from text into feature vectors.  

=head4 order1vec.pl (SenseCluster v0.95 program used without modifications)

Creates first order context vectors or feature vectors. Both of these vectors 
indicate whether or not a given feature occurs in the given context. The 
possible features are identified via Perl regular expressions of the form 
created by nsp2regex.pl. 

=head4 preprocess.pl (SenseCluster v0.95 program used without modifications)

Takes an xml file in SENSEVAL-2 lexical-sample format
and splits it apart into as many files as there are
lexical elements in the original file. Each lexical 
element usually corresponds with a word used in a 
particular part of speech. It also does other sundry 
preprocessing tasks with the data.


=head3 internal

=head4 create-vectors.pl

This program creates the instance and sense vectors 
for the unsupervised-disambiguate wrapper program 
using SenseCluster programs.

=head2 Data

=head3 external

=head4 sval2plain.pl

Converts a given file from Senseval-2 format into plain text format. 
Each line of the plain text files contains a single context.  

=head4 text2sval.pl

Converts a plain text instance data file into a Senseval-2 formatted XML file.

=head4 nlm2sval2.pl

Converts the Medline formatted data into Senseval-2 formatted data.

=head4 nlm2sval2-driver.pl

The driver program used to convert the NLM-WSD Basic_Reviewed_Results 
into Senseval-2 format.

=head3 internal

=head4 machinecode2mm.pl 

This program converts the machine code MetaMap formatted text  
to our xml-like .mm format used by the CuiTools package.

=head4 mm2plain.pl 

Converts a given file from .mm format into plain text format. 
Each line of the plain text files contains a single context.  

=head4 nlm2mm.pl

This program converts the NLM-WSD dataset to .mm format. The information 
though is obtained the from the current version of MetaMap transfer program 
(MMTx) rather than using the information in the dataset itself (except 
xfor the sense of the target word). Note: this only works with the PMID 
version of the dataset.


=head4 plain2mm.pl

Converts plain text to the xml-like .mm format used by the CuiTools 
package. 

More information about the .mm format can be found in the file
README.format.mm.pod

Here is an example of an instance in "plain" text:

Paul was named <head instance="art.30002" sense="art">Art</head> magazine's top collector.

=head4 prolog2mm.pl

Converts NLM formated text (as seen in the NLM-WSD dataset) to the xml-like 
.mm format used by the CuiTools package. An example of the .mm format is 
above in the plain2mm.pl descriptions. For more detailed description of 
the mm format see the documentation for the prolog2mm.pl program. For a more 
detailed detailed description of the nlm format, also see the prolog2mm.pl 
documentation but your best bet is to look at the documentation by the 
National Library of Medicine themselves which is located at: 

http://wsd.nlm.nih.gov/info/layout.html#detailed_descrip

=head1 AUTHOR

Bridget McInnes, University of Minnesota

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2007,

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth.
 tpederse at umn.edu

 Bridget McInnes, University of Minnesota
 bthomson at cs.umn.edu

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to

 The Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
 Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.

=cut
 
